Understanding adverse childhood experiences,
ACEs.
What are adverse childhood experiences?
Adverse childhood experiences,
often referred to as ACEs,
are traumatic or highly stressful events that occur during childhood,
typically before the age of 18.
These experiences can significantly affect a child's emotional development,
physical health,
relationships,
and behavior throughout their life.
ACEs were first identified through the Adverse Childhood
Experiences Study conducted by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention,
CDC
and Kaiser Permanente in the United States.
The study revealed a powerful connection between.
Childhood trauma and long-term health,
mental health,
and social outcomes.
Children who experience multiple ACEs are statistically
more likely to face difficulties in education,
relationships,
emotional regulation,
and physical health later in life.
The types of adverse childhood experiences.
Adverse childhood experiences generally fall into three broad areas
abuse,
neglect,
and household dysfunction.
Abuse may include physical,
emotional,
or sexual harm directed toward a child.
Neglect can involve both emotional neglect,
where a child's emotional needs are not met,
and physical neglect,
where basic needs such as food,
care,
supervision or safety are not adequately provided.
Household dysfunction
refers to environments.
Children are exposed to instability or distressing experiences within the home.
This may include domestic violence,
parental substance misuse,
parental mental illness,
criminal behavior in the household,
parental separation,
or the imprisonment of a parent.
Children who grow up in environments where these
experiences occur frequently may live under constant stress,
which can have a significant effect on their developing brain.